Already the first thing you want to talk about is iterators and also the rebels.
And with the differences they're both words they're spelled differently.
They have to do with iterating with looping but they are different.
OK.
Let's talk about iterator first.
So an iterator is any object that can be iterated upon.
Now what does it mean for something to be iterated upon.
You could think of it as just anything we could run a for loop on but behind the scenes there's a method
called Next when you call next on an iterator or when a for loop calls.
Next on an iterator it returns the next item one item at a time you call.
Next you get one item become next.
You get the next item and you keep going until you hit the end or until the for the pits the end.
We'll talk about how it works and what happens at the end.
But an iterator is the actual object that is being iterated over using the next function.
And iterable on the other hand is simply an object that returns an iterator.
So I know you might be thinking OK great.
What does that actually mean.
Here's an example.
The string hello on it's own or any string is not an iterator but it's an iterable because if I call
this it her function and I pass in Hello the string that returns to me an iterator.
All these words sound like jibberish after saying them too many times.
So this on its own is iterable just like a list isn't iterable the list is never actually directly looped
over.
What happens is that the for loop calls it her passes in the list and then that returns an iterator
that then the loop will call next on the iterator over and over and over until it hits the end.
OK I'm going to demo it.
If you're confused.
That's totally normal.
Let me just show you first of all define a variable called name and set it equal to Oprah.
OK.
So I have this string.
And on its own the string is not an iterator.
And we could test that right.
Trying to do next on name.
And it actually tells us String object is not an iterator.
So whenever we call next on something it needs to be an iterator a string on its own isn't.
However if we then call it ter ETR and then pass in name just like this it returns to us a string iterator
object.
Now we didn't capture a variable so let's do that again and I'll call this it in her name.
OK so it contains the iterator string is iterable but it's not an iterator when we call it her with
a string.
It returns a string iterator.
OK.
So here we have a string iterator.
So when we do something like for char in Oprah what the for the for loop will do behind the scenes is
take this thing here whether it's a list or a string or something else.
In our case a string and it calls it her on it that returns the iterator and then the for loop to go
through each item in the iterator uses the next function.
So let's talk about next now when next is calls on an iterator the iterator should return the next item.
Makes sense.
It returns one item at a time.
So each iteration through the iterator and it keeps returning one thing at a time until it hits the
end of whatever it is a string a string iterator will return one character starting with the first character
and then the next one the next on the next one and each time next is called.
It keeps returning the next character Intel where at the end of the string then it raises a stop iteration
error.
And this is a standard protocol that needs to be set up in any iterator that exists or any that we define
on our own and we'll talk about that later in the section.
For example with this for you appear on Oprah the string.
It gets the string iterator version of that and then it calls next.
Over and over and we can do that without a for loop.
So we already have the iterator.
The string iterator here called I-T And first I call it and it gives me no next time it gives the P
then.
So you can see a for loop is doing the same thing behind the scenes it's calling next.
Over and over and over.
And then when I hit the end it gives us stop iteration error.
We could try the same thing with a list like Nomes which is just one two three four five.
And if I tried to call next on numbers right away it is not an iterator so it doesn't work.
It is however iterable.
So when I call her on numbers I'll save that to a variable and we'll just call it again.
If I look at I know it's a list iterator object.
OK so list iterator and then we call next on that and it gives us 1 and then 2 and then 3 and 4 and
5 and then we hit the end and every time after that we just get stop iteration right.
Hopefully this video cleared up a little bit.
The distinction between iterators and intervals and iterable is simply something that when you call
it on it will return an iterator.
The iterator itself is what we iterate over what a for loop iterates over by calling next on it.
So next up we're actually going to see how to define our own version of a for loop where we will actually
be calling next an itor on our own so it's not going to be as full featured as a regular for loop but
it should illustrate how all of this works together.